Feature flag payload doc (#5682)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/feature-flags/payloads.mdx

---
title: Feature Flag payloads
availability:
    free: full
    selfServe: full
    enterprise: full
---

## Payloads

A feature flag payload is an additional piece of information that is sent along to your app when a flag is matched for a user. The returned value can be any valid JSON type (object, array, number, string, Boolean or null).

> For boolean based feature flags, you can specify a payload to be returned when the flag is true. For multviariate flags, you can define a payload for each of the variants of the flag. 

Author: Handled manually as there was another wording issue

## Use cases

> Payloads give you the ability to configure functionality related to your flag right inside PostHog without limits. For example, if you wanted to flag the color and size of a button, you now can specify a payload that provides 
> a size value and a color value. Without payloads, you would have to have used the feature flag key as the value that determines the configuration of the button or write in your code a dictionary/switch of options based on the flag values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Payloads give you the ability to configure functionality related to your flag inside PostHog. This means more flexibility and fewer updates to your code. For example, you can:
- set the color, size, and text of a button
- modify the title and subtitle of a page
- trigger different functions with different arguments
- access multiple different infrastructure options

Without payloads, all of these options would need to be coded into your app, rather than accessing the payload values. 
```

## Using payloads in your code

> To illustrate how feature flag payloads can be used, the javascript implementation will be demonstrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To illustrate how to use feature flag payloads, we can configure a button in JavaScript by first checking for the flag, then setting the config with the payload value.
```

```js
// payload for 'checkout-button-color' defined as:
// {
//    color: 'black',
//    size: 50
// }

if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('checkout-button-color') === 'black') {
    const buttonConfig = posthog.getFeatureFlagPayload('keyword')
    // do something
}
```

> The feature flag payload retrieval function is a separate function that can be called to obtain the payload associated with the flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The feature flag payload retrieval function (`getFeatureFlagPayload()`) is a separate function that can be called to obtain the payload associated with the flag.
```
